okay so today we're going to be looking
at speaking and particularly focusing on
the strategy for speaking part two so we
did this last week but we're going to do
it again with some different task cards
to really start to practice and become
more confident and natural at the
presentation part of the speaking test
so quick overview as you know you'll be
given a task card with one minute to
prepare and take notes using a pencil
provided to you and two minutes to speak
about the topic given at the end of the
two minutes the examiner will stop you
so part two the trick to this is to make
it interesting for yourself and for the
examiner you want to avoid repetition
you want to avoid going round in circles
you've got two minutes to speak so if we
know it's easy to sort of run our eye
deep run out of ideas in that time so
we're going to show you a strategy to
avoid running out of ideas and make it
an interesting presentation common
topics to prepare for here's a list
festivals or celebrations museums
galleries travels or cities that you've
visited trips that you've taken friends
or experiences from childhood people
that you admire objects or positions
that you've earned it can be food that
you like to cook or a traditional food
in your country it can be music related
so talk about a you know an artist or a
musical singer or musician that you like
or genre of music that you like they
could ask you to speak about a movie
that you've seen recently now your
favorite movie they could ask you to
speak about a book for example that
you've read a relative home so to speak
about your hometown or a house that you
lived in when you're a child or a school
friend a teacher
a school subject there so things related
to school or education your task card
for speaking part two is going to look
something like this so here's the first
example we're going to look at talk
about about the pet you had as a child
you should mention what it looked like
what its personality was like what you
do or did with it and say what kind of
person a similar map pet might be
suitable for so as you can see talk
about a pet that you had meaning you're
going to be speaking in past tense okay
because you talked about a pet that you
had as a child
so the strategy we want to do is
although it's asking you to speak in the
past we don't want to spend the whole
two minutes speaking in the past we want
to speak in different tenses to show
that we can use different grammar forms
and different tenses and also it will
help us to generate ideas so the
strategy for doing that or the strategy
to remember is past present future so
let's look at an example - the first
task card talk about a pet you had as a
child what it looked like what his
personality was like what you did with
it and what kind of person a similar pet
might be useful for so I'm going to
begin with the past I had a few pets
throughout my childhood but the one I
remember most fondly was a beige colored
cat called Brandi she had large white
spots with some black streaks she was
calm and warm
unlike other cats which can be aloof she
loved attention we used to follow me
around everywhere I used to put her in
the basket on the front of my bicycle
and ride around with her she used to
look out of the basket to the world
outside
and enjoy the ride one day as she
followed me to school and I was allowed
to keep her with me the whole day
so in that part I actually answered most
of the questions I mentioned what my cat
or my pet looked like beige colored with
white spots and black streaks I talked
about her personality she was calm and
warm and what I used to do with this kit
I used to put her in the basket of my
bicycle and ride around with her okay so
there I've answered the questions
there's not much more I can keep
speaking about without hesitation
without having to stop and think and
without repeating myself which is why I
can expand my thoughts by then moving
into the present but let's first look at
my past tense verbs
I had a few pets the one I remember was
a beige colored cat she had large white
stripes spots she was calm she loved
attention used to follow me I would put
her so the repetitive action in the past
I would I used to followed I was allowed
okay so this really shows that I have a
good command of different past tense
verbs but now I want to expand my my
talk because this is only about maybe a
minute you know 45 seconds so I can
elaborate by moving into the present I
think a pet like brandy is suitable for
anyone to enjoy children adults and the
elderly a pet like that does not require
much attention other than food and love
so in this part the present
I've actually answered the final part of
the task card and say what kind of
person a similar pet might be suitable
for suitable for anyone okay then I've
given an example children adults
and the elderly so my words in the
present tense here I think to enjoy and
then does not require it's still very
short so I can expand it by moving into
the future even though the task card
does it mention talking about the future
I can elaborate one day I would like to
have another pet like brandy I'm
actually thinking of getting another cat
next year if I do I will name it Lola I
hope will be just as cute as brandy was
future tense verbs I would like to have
I'm thinking of getting I will name it
will be ok so as long as you stay on
topic it doesn't matter if you add more
information than what's required in the
task card ok
it shows that you're able to think
creatively speak creatively and also it
helps you to meet the time limit so why
don't you give it a try with this task
card describe a toy you used to have as
a child you should say what kind of toy
it was what you did with it how it made
you feel and say if you think children
these days would still be interested in
such a toy remember past present future
all right I'm going to give you maybe
two minutes to type in your response it
will make it easier for me to read your
responses if you type it all in one text
rather than past present future
separately alright if you just tuck in
the entire response and then submit it
once you're done
[Music]
you
okay while I'm waiting for you to finish
typing any responses I'm going to read
one by Divya I had lots of toys when I
was a child but I was very fond of
Barbie dolls Oh Benny there spinnings be
news when he finished their present and
future then I'll read yours
Divya okay during my childhood I used to
enjoy playing with stainless steel
kitchens with a stainless steel kitchen
set it was made a very durable stainless
steel and had miniature plates cups
bowls a table and a few chairs it also
had a few cooking pots I used to enjoy
pretending cooking with this kitchen set
and give virtual food to my family in
these cute little plates nowadays
children still enjoy playing with
military kitchen sets however they are
made of plastic instead of steel which
makes it toxic for toddlers every child
loves to enact their mother playing with
the kitchen set in future and planning
to buy a similar kitchen set for my
younger daughter I would love to see her
playing with it and enjoying tiny little
versions of utensils which we actually
use in our daily lives so very nice give
us that are talking about the past you
used to enjoy playing with the
consept the present how children still
like to play with kitchen sets but
nowadays they're made of different
materials then moving into the future
she would like to buy a similar kitchen
set for her daughter okay let's move on
second example describe an animal that
lives in the wild in your country you
should say what it looks like what its
habits are how it interacts with people
and say if you think there will be more
or less of this animal in the future and
why now as you can see this question is
asking you to speak in the present
because of saying describe an animal
that lives currently in the wild in your
country okay so it begins with the
present but you still want to start with
the past because you're telling a story
so think about in this part of the task
that you're telling a story to the
examiner and stories start in the past
then you want to bring it into the
presence of the answer the question and
then somehow tie it into the future so
let's have a look at my example starting
with the past I remember the first time
I ever saw a kangaroo in the wild I was
10 years old my family and I were
driving to visit relatives along the
coast of South Australia when we passed
a large field of empty land with shrubs
there was a whole family of kangaroos
the largest one was huge he was laying
under a tree the mother was huffing
around with the younger ones she also
had a baby kangaroo in her pouch I was
so excited to see them
so past I saw I was we were driving we
past was he was laying was hopping had
and was excited so here I've got very
clear past tense verbs so I've got past
simple was past and hand and excited and
I have past continuous
we were driving he was laying she was
hopping okay so it's good if you're
going to use past tense to try to vary
it up a bit now let's go into the
present here's where I'm going to
describe the animal that lives in my
country kangaroos are the most
recognizable Australian animal they are
large and muscular with a strong tail
which they useful balance as they stand
on their two hind legs the females have
pouches on their tummies where they keep
their young known as Joey's they tend to
live in the Australian outback and
countryside they can be friendly but
it's advisable to approach them with
caution as they are known to be very
strong and sometimes hostile now in this
part
I've actually answered that all of the
questions in the TAS card I've described
the animal which is kangaroo what does
it look like large and muscular with a
strong tail what ifs habits are well
I've said that the female kangaroos keep
their young in their pouch how would
interact with people so they can be
friendly but they can sometimes be
hostile ok so the present is where I've
actually answered most of the the parts
of the task card now I want to move into
the future and the last part of the task
card says say if you think there will be
more or less of this animal in the
future and why up here my present verbs
our stand keep live
ok so present their future kangaroos are
known as pests in Australia I don't
think they will be endangered and I
believe their population will continue
to grow in the future
despite hunting and other threats so
because they are pests there's so many
of them I don't think they will be
endangered future and believe their
population will continue to grow again
future alright so here I've answered all
parts of the the card and I've also made
it a little bit interesting by giving an
anecdote an anecdote is a personal story
or will you recount a personal
experience and I did that in the first
part all right your turn describe a
plant grown in your country you should
say what the plant is where it is grown
why you like or dislike it and explain
why it's important to your country
[Music]
you
once you're done typing your answer I'd
like you to read it out loud to yourself
and time yourself you should be speaking
for two minutes minimum a minute and a
half okay so you want to make sure that
your response meets the time limit
you
so it seems and Billy and Divya that
you're talking about the same plant I
think so I'm going to read the first
part of okay I'm going to read the first
part of Billy's response
there are several plants grown in my
country such as medicinal plants and
decorative plants I will discuss the
plant known as basil
this plant is important not only because
of its medicinal properties but it is
also considered an auspicious or
auspicious to have this plant in Indian
hands as people pray as people of the
Hindu religion pray to this plant in my
country this plant requires a subtle
climate such as ample sunlight and rain
to grow I live in Melbourne and this
plant is available at the Indian grocery
I have recently bought this at my home
yes okay good so nice you talked about
the present using present tense and you
also talked about well mainly mentioned
the present which is fine because you
answered all of the the parts of the
task but to allow yourself a little bit
more time maybe you can mention a couple
of sentences in the future all right
something like I will be visiting this
grocery next week to to buy some so that
I can use it in my cooking or in my tea
something like that maybe just a
sentence or two all right
very interesting I should go to the
local Indian grocery and find myself
some it sound
it's very healthy and delicious so yeah
I love something new today all right
so I hope that you guys are feeling a
bit more comfortable and confident with
the speaking part of the test part 2 -
part 1
usually is you settling in
you know the examiner will ask you us to
see your ID card they'll ask your name
and they'll ask you questions like you
know where are you living
where you from what do you do very very
basic stuff just to sort of get you
comfortable and ease you mean alright
because that's the part where you're
most nervous at the beginning and then
you'll start to relax they'll give you
your task card and that's when you can
use this strategy and I think you guys
have got it all right remember tell a
story use a personal anecdote a write a
story from from your past make it
interesting part 3 they're going to ask
you some questions related to part 2 so
for example if I want to relate it to
the car that you just had about a plant
they might ask you things like oh gosh
I've gone blank now but I might ask you
things like how important is agriculture
in your country you know or there's a
lot of your your country's revenue comes
from agriculture things like is the
environment in your country now being
threatened so things kind of related to
the topic but a bit more advanced going
a little bit deeper into the topic all
right so you're going to have to sort of
think a little bit more deeply in part 3
but by then your brain will be nice and
active and you'll be able to sort of
generate some more interesting ideas
just relax
you know don't freak out if you go blank
or you feel like you you can't answer a
question you know just ask if you don't
understand something if you're finding a
question very difficult say so you know
you could just say look over I actually
find that question quite difficult
I've not thought of that before you know
maybe I just need a little bit time but
it's time to think or some interesting
question I've never considered that
before you know and that will kind of
calm you down and relax you rather than
making you feel like I have to answer I
have to answer you know um so the
examine is a person just see them as a
person and try to see as much like a
conversation alright and yeah I I have
all the faith in you guys so be
confident be prepared and ace the
speaking test and Divya yours is
tomorrow so please let me know how you
go send me an email
I'd love to hear about your experience
okay all the best
good luck I'll be be thinking of you do
you guys bye